docs/store.md, before:

# Store

```js
import { Store } from 'backend-store'
// or const { Store } = require('backend-store')
```

## #constructor
```js
const store = new Store()
```

Create new store

## #define(name, fn, [meta])

Define new method in the store.

**Arguments**:

| Argument | Type       | Description
|----------|------------|------------
| name     | `string`   | Method name.
| fn       | `function` | [Method function](/store.md?id=method-function)
| [meta]   | `any`      | User-defined meta data related to that method. It may be used by plugin, middleware or by the method itself.

**Return**:

`Store` - Store instance itself for chaining like this `store.defineMethod(...).defineMethod(...)`

**Description**:

"name" argument restrictions:
* name may consist of one or more parts separated with "/" character
* each part must consist of at least one character
* each part must start with [a-zA-Z_] and can be followed by any number of [a-zA-Z_0-9] characters

```js
// valid method name examples
store.define('api/createPost', ...)
store.define('doSomething', ...)
store.define('api/posts/create', ...)
store.define('a', ...)
store.define('a/b/c9_', ...)

// invalid method name examples
store.define('', ...)
store.define('1doSomething', ...)
store.define('api//p', ...)
store.define('/a', ...)
store.define('b/', ...)
store.define('a b c', ...)
```

"fn" argument must be a function that takes two arguments: payload and [methodContext](/store.md?id=method-context).
It may return any value or Promise<any>. Method function is described in details here: [Method function](/store.md?id=method-function).

"meta" argument is optional and it is used to associate some user-defined meta data with a defined function.
It may be used by plugin (see [Store#plugin](/store.md?id=pluginfn-options)), by middleware (see [middlewareContext](/store.md?id=middleware-context)) or by method itself (see [methodContext](/store.md?id=method-context)).

**Example**:

```js
store.define('api/createPost', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { title, content } = payload
  const { context, dispatch } = methodContext
  const result = await disptach('db/createPost', { title, content, authorId: context.user.id })
  return result
}, { some: 'meta-data' })
```

## #use(fn)

Add new middleware to store.

**Arguments**:

| Argument | Type       | Description
|----------|------------|------------
| fn       | `function` | [Middleware function](/store.md?id=middleware-function)

**Return**:

`Store` - Store instance itself for chaining like this `store.use(...).use(...)`

**Description**:

Middleware function is executed before each executed method.
It may be used to modify payload before execution of other middlewares and method function.
It may be used to modify output of method function.
It may be used for logging and error handling.

**Example**:

```js
const myMiddleware = async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
  const { method } = middlewareContext
  console.log(`before ${method}`)
  try {
    const result = await next(payload)
    console.log(`after ${method}`)
    return result
  } catch (err) {
    console.log(`error ${method}`)
    throw err
  }
}

store.use(myMiddleware)
```

Middleware function is described in details here: [Middleware function](/store.md?id=middleware-function).

## #plugin(fn, [options])

Use a plugin on store instance.

**Arguments**:

| Argument  | Type       | Description
|-----------|------------|------------
| fn        | `function` | [Plugin function](/store.md?plugin-function)
| [options] | `any`      | Plugin options passed to plugin function along with store instance

**Return**:

`any` - result of plugin function

**Description**:

It's just a helper to define some standard of using plugins with backend-store.

**Example**:

```js
const myPlugin = (store, options = {}) => {
  if (options.log) {
    store.use(async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
      console.log(`before ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      try {
        await next(payload)
        console.log(`after ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`error ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      }
    })
  }
}

store.plugin(myPlugin, { log: true })
```

Plugin function is described in details here: [Plugin function](/store.md?id=plugin-function).

## #dispatch(method, [payload], [context], [options])

Executes method in the store.

**Arguments**:

| Argument      | Type       | Description
|---------------|------------|------------
| method        | `string`   | Method name
| [payload]     | `any`      | Payload passed to method
| [context]     | `any`      | User defined context. Context is shared across all methods executed in single call chain
| [options]     | `object`   | Additional options
| [options.cid] | `string`   | User-defined call chain id. It defaults to random UUID. You can set it to express request id for example.

**Return**:

`Promise<any>` - result of method function

**Description**:

It executes given method along with all middleware defined in the store.

**Example**:

```js
// only method name
await store.dispatch('myMethod')

// method name and payload
await store.dispatch('api/createPost', {
  title: 'abc',
  content: 'Lorem ipsum'
})

// method name, payload and context
await store.dispatch('api/createPost', {
  title: 'abc',
  content: 'Lorem ipsum'
}, { user: { id: 1, role: 'admin' } })

// method name, payload, context and cid option
await store.dispatch('api/createPost', {
  title: 'abc',
  content: 'Lorem ipsum'
}, {
  user: { id: 1, role: 'admin' }
}, { cid: '<call_chain_id>' })

// catch error
try {
  await store.dispatch('myMethod')
} catch (err) {
  // err is always instance of AppError
  const originalError = err.getOriginalError() // for logging for example
  const dataForUser = err.toJSON()

  // return dataForUser as a result of rest api request or graphql api request
}
```

## Method function

`(payload, methodContext) => (any | Promise<any>)`

**Arguments**:

| Argument      | Type       | Description
|---------------|------------|------------
| payload       | `any`      | Payload passed to method
| methodContext | `object`   | [Method context](/store.md)

**Return**:

Any value or Promise of any value.

## Method context

Method context is passed as second argument (along with payload) to any executed method.

| Property        | Type       | Description
|-----------------|------------|----------------------------
| dispatch        | `function` | Function to dispatch any other method from the store (`dispatch(method, payload) => Promise<any>`).
| context         | `any`      | User-defined context passed to `Store#dispatch`.
| cid             | `string`   | Call chain id. Defaults to random UUID.
| seq             | `integer`  | Call chain method sequence number.
| meta            | `any`      | User-defined method meta data.
| errors          | `object`   | [Errors](/errors.md) dictionary.
| stack           | `array`    | Call chain stack.

**dispatch**

Dispatch function passed to method context allows to call other methods in the store from inside of executed method.
It is slightly different that `Store#dispatch` method because it takes only "method" and "payload" args.
Context and options are passed automatically form parent method.

```js
store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { dispatch, context } = methodContext
  const result = await dispatch('myMethod2', { some: 'payload' })
  return result
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { context } = methodContext
  // context is same as in myMethod2
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1', null, { user: { id: 1, role: 'admin' } })
```

**context**

Context in any value passed to `Store#dispatch` as context argument.
It is also automatically passed to any other methods executed from inside of parent method.
It is a good place to pass data of user who is executing method, or database transaction descriptor.
It can be modified by middleware or by the method itself.

**cid**

Call chain id, default's to random UUID but can be passed as an option to `Store#dispatch` method.
It is used to identify call chain - all methods executed from inside of parent method will have same cid.

```js
// cid in all methods below will be the same

store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { cid } = methodContext
  await dispatch('myMethod2')
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { cid } = methodContext
  await dispatch('myMethod3')
})

store.define('myMethod3', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { cid } = methodContext
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1')
```

**seq**

Method sequence in call chain. Starts as `0` and it's incremented every time another method is executed in a call chain.

```js
store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { seq } = methodContext
  // seq = 0
  await dispatch('myMethod2')
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { seq } = methodContext
  // seq = 1
  await dispatch('myMethod3')
})

store.define('myMethod3', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { seq } = methodContext
  // seq = 2
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1')
```

**meta**

User-defined method meta data (defined in `Store#define`).

**errors**

[Errors dictionary](errors.md).

```js
store.define('auth/requireAdmin', (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { context, errors } = methodContext
  if (!context || !context.user) {
    throw new errors.AuthenticationError()
  } else if (context.user.role !== 'admin') {
    throw new errors.AuthorizationError()
  }
})
```

**stack**

Call chain method execution stack. It is an array of following objects:
```js
{ cid: "<cid>", seq: "<seq>", method: "<method_name>" }
```

```js
store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { stack } = methodContext
  /*
    stack = [
      { cid, seq: 0, method: 'myMethod1' }
    ]
  */
  await dispatch('myMethod2')
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { stack } = methodContext
  /*
    stack = [
      { cid, seq: 0, method: 'myMethod1' },
      { cid, seq: 1, method: 'myMethod2' }
    ]
  */
  await dispatch('myMethod3')
})

store.define('myMethod3', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { stack } = methodContext
  /*
    stack = [
      { cid, seq: 0, method: 'myMethod1' },
      { cid, seq: 1, method: 'myMethod2' },
      { cid, seq: 2, method: 'myMethod3' }
    ]
  */
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1')
```

## Middleware function

`(payload, middlewareContext, next) => (any | Promise<any>)`

**Arguments**:

| Argument          | Type       | Description
|-------------------|------------|------------
| payload           | `any`      | Payload passed to method
| middlewareContext | `object`   | [Middleware context](/store.md)
| next              | `function` | Next function to call next middleware(s) and method itself

**Return**:

Any value or Promise of any value.

**next**

Function of type `(payload) => Promise<any>`.

!> To pass payload to next middleware(s) and to method itself always pass "payload" to "next" function

!> To pass result to parent middlewares and to `Store#dispatch` always return result from middleware

```js
store.use(async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
  // do something before

  // you must pass payload to other middleware(s) and method explicitly
  // you can also modify payload here or replace it completely by passing something else to next
  // you can also skip calling next to prevent method to be dispatched
  const result = await next(payload)

  // do something after

  // you must return result explicitly
  // you can also modify result or replace it completely by returning something else
  return result
})
```

## Middleware context

Middleware context is passed as second argument (along with payload and next) to middleware function.

| Property        | Type       | Description
|-----------------|------------|----------------------------
| method          | `string`   | Name of method before which middleware is executed.
| context         | `any`      | User-defined context passed to `Store#dispatch`.
| cid             | `string`   | Call chain id. Defaults to random UUID.
| seq             | `integer`  | Call chain method sequence number.
| meta            | `any`      | User-defined method meta data.
| errors          | `object`   | [Errors](/errors.md) dictionary.
| stack           | `array`    | Call chain stack.
| methodContext   | `object`   | [Method context](/store.md?id=method-context)

It's pretty much the same as [Method context](/store.md?id=method-context) with following differences:

* It has no "dispatch" property
* It has "method" property
* It has "methodContext" property

"methodContext" property may be used to add some fields / methods to it to be available for method itself.

## Plugin function

`(store, options) => any`

**Arguments**:

| Argument          | Type       | Description
|-------------------|------------|------------
| store             | `Store`    | Store instance
| options           | `any`      | Plugin options

**Return**:

Any value.

```js
const myPlugin = (store, options = {}) => {
  if (options.log) {
    store.use(async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
      console.log(`before ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      try {
        await next(payload)
        console.log(`after ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`error ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      }
    })
  }
}

store.plugin(myPlugin, { log: true })
```

Commit message:

pass options from store.dispatch to method context and middleware context

docs/store.md, after:

# Store

```js
import { Store } from 'backend-store'
// or const { Store } = require('backend-store')
```

## #constructor
```js
const store = new Store()
```

Create new store

## #define(name, fn, [meta])

Define new method in the store.

**Arguments**:

| Argument | Type       | Description
|----------|------------|------------
| name     | `string`   | Method name.
| fn       | `function` | [Method function](/store.md?id=method-function)
| [meta]   | `any`      | User-defined meta data related to that method. It may be used by plugin, middleware or by the method itself.

**Return**:

`Store` - Store instance itself for chaining like this `store.defineMethod(...).defineMethod(...)`

**Description**:

"name" argument restrictions:
* name may consist of one or more parts separated with "/" character
* each part must consist of at least one character
* each part must start with [a-zA-Z_] and can be followed by any number of [a-zA-Z_0-9] characters

```js
// valid method name examples
store.define('api/createPost', ...)
store.define('doSomething', ...)
store.define('api/posts/create', ...)
store.define('a', ...)
store.define('a/b/c9_', ...)

// invalid method name examples
store.define('', ...)
store.define('1doSomething', ...)
store.define('api//p', ...)
store.define('/a', ...)
store.define('b/', ...)
store.define('a b c', ...)
```

"fn" argument must be a function that takes two arguments: payload and [methodContext](/store.md?id=method-context).
It may return any value or Promise<any>. Method function is described in details here: [Method function](/store.md?id=method-function).

"meta" argument is optional and it is used to associate some user-defined meta data with a defined function.
It may be used by plugin (see [Store#plugin](/store.md?id=pluginfn-options)), by middleware (see [middlewareContext](/store.md?id=middleware-context)) or by method itself (see [methodContext](/store.md?id=method-context)).

**Example**:

```js
store.define('api/createPost', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { title, content } = payload
  const { context, dispatch } = methodContext
  const result = await disptach('db/createPost', { title, content, authorId: context.user.id })
  return result
}, { some: 'meta-data' })
```

## #use(fn)

Add new middleware to store.

**Arguments**:

| Argument | Type       | Description
|----------|------------|------------
| fn       | `function` | [Middleware function](/store.md?id=middleware-function)

**Return**:

`Store` - Store instance itself for chaining like this `store.use(...).use(...)`

**Description**:

Middleware function is executed before each executed method.
It may be used to modify payload before execution of other middlewares and method function.
It may be used to modify output of method function.
It may be used for logging and error handling.

**Example**:

```js
const myMiddleware = async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
  const { method } = middlewareContext
  console.log(`before ${method}`)
  try {
    const result = await next(payload)
    console.log(`after ${method}`)
    return result
  } catch (err) {
    console.log(`error ${method}`)
    throw err
  }
}

store.use(myMiddleware)
```

Middleware function is described in details here: [Middleware function](/store.md?id=middleware-function).

## #plugin(fn, [options])

Use a plugin on store instance.

**Arguments**:

| Argument  | Type       | Description
|-----------|------------|------------
| fn        | `function` | [Plugin function](/store.md?plugin-function)
| [options] | `any`      | Plugin options passed to plugin function along with store instance

**Return**:

`any` - result of plugin function

**Description**:

It's just a helper to define some standard of using plugins with backend-store.

**Example**:

```js
const myPlugin = (store, options = {}) => {
  if (options.log) {
    store.use(async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
      console.log(`before ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      try {
        await next(payload)
        console.log(`after ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`error ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      }
    })
  }
}

store.plugin(myPlugin, { log: true })
```

Plugin function is described in details here: [Plugin function](/store.md?id=plugin-function).

## #dispatch(method, [payload], [context], [options])

Executes method in the store.

**Arguments**:

| Argument      | Type       | Description
|---------------|------------|------------
| method        | `string`   | Method name
| [payload]     | `any`      | Payload passed to method
| [context]     | `any`      | User defined context. Context is shared across all methods executed in single call chain
| [options]     | `object`   | Additional options
| [options.cid] | `string`   | User-defined call chain id. It defaults to random UUID. You can set it to express request id for example.
| [options.*]   | `any`      | All options will be passed to [method context](/store.md?id=method-context) and [middleware context](/store.md?id=middleware-context)

**Return**:

`Promise<any>` - result of method function

**Description**:

It executes given method along with all middleware defined in the store.

**Example**:

```js
// only method name
await store.dispatch('myMethod')

// method name and payload
await store.dispatch('api/createPost', {
  title: 'abc',
  content: 'Lorem ipsum'
})

// method name, payload and context
await store.dispatch('api/createPost', {
  title: 'abc',
  content: 'Lorem ipsum'
}, { user: { id: 1, role: 'admin' } })

// method name, payload, context and cid option
await store.dispatch('api/createPost', {
  title: 'abc',
  content: 'Lorem ipsum'
}, {
  user: { id: 1, role: 'admin' }
}, { cid: '<call_chain_id>' })

// catch error
try {
  await store.dispatch('myMethod')
} catch (err) {
  // err is always instance of AppError
  const originalError = err.getOriginalError() // for logging for example
  const dataForUser = err.toJSON()

  // return dataForUser as a result of rest api request or graphql api request
}
```

## Method function

`(payload, methodContext) => (any | Promise<any>)`

**Arguments**:

| Argument      | Type       | Description
|---------------|------------|------------
| payload       | `any`      | Payload passed to method
| methodContext | `object`   | [Method context](/store.md)

**Return**:

Any value or Promise of any value.

## Method context

Method context is passed as second argument (along with payload) to any executed method.

| Property        | Type       | Description
|-----------------|------------|----------------------------
| dispatch        | `function` | Function to dispatch any other method from the store (`dispatch(method, payload) => Promise<any>`).
| context         | `any`      | User-defined context passed to `Store#dispatch`.
| cid             | `string`   | Call chain id. Defaults to random UUID.
| seq             | `integer`  | Call chain method sequence number.
| meta            | `any`      | User-defined method meta data.
| errors          | `object`   | [Errors](/errors.md) dictionary.
| stack           | `array`    | Call chain stack.
| options         | `object`   | Options passed to [Store#dispatch](/store.md?id=dispatchmethod-payload-context-options).

**dispatch**

Dispatch function passed to method context allows to call other methods in the store from inside of executed method.
It is slightly different that `Store#dispatch` method because it takes only "method" and "payload" args.
Context and options are passed automatically form parent method.

```js
store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { dispatch, context } = methodContext
  const result = await dispatch('myMethod2', { some: 'payload' })
  return result
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { context } = methodContext
  // context is same as in myMethod2
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1', null, { user: { id: 1, role: 'admin' } })
```

**context**

Context in any value passed to `Store#dispatch` as context argument.
It is also automatically passed to any other methods executed from inside of parent method.
It is a good place to pass data of user who is executing method, or database transaction descriptor.
It can be modified by middleware or by the method itself.

**cid**

Call chain id, default's to random UUID but can be passed as an option to `Store#dispatch` method.
It is used to identify call chain - all methods executed from inside of parent method will have same cid.

```js
// cid in all methods below will be the same

store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { cid } = methodContext
  await dispatch('myMethod2')
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { cid } = methodContext
  await dispatch('myMethod3')
})

store.define('myMethod3', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { cid } = methodContext
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1')
```

**seq**

Method sequence in call chain. Starts as `0` and it's incremented every time another method is executed in a call chain.

```js
store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { seq } = methodContext
  // seq = 0
  await dispatch('myMethod2')
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { seq } = methodContext
  // seq = 1
  await dispatch('myMethod3')
})

store.define('myMethod3', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { seq } = methodContext
  // seq = 2
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1')
```

**meta**

User-defined method meta data (defined in `Store#define`).

**errors**

[Errors dictionary](errors.md).

```js
store.define('auth/requireAdmin', (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { context, errors } = methodContext
  if (!context || !context.user) {
    throw new errors.AuthenticationError()
  } else if (context.user.role !== 'admin') {
    throw new errors.AuthorizationError()
  }
})
```

**stack**

Call chain method execution stack. It is an array of following objects:
```js
{ cid: "<cid>", seq: "<seq>", method: "<method_name>" }
```

```js
store.define('myMethod1', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { stack } = methodContext
  /*
    stack = [
      { cid, seq: 0, method: 'myMethod1' }
    ]
  */
  await dispatch('myMethod2')
})

store.define('myMethod2', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { stack } = methodContext
  /*
    stack = [
      { cid, seq: 0, method: 'myMethod1' },
      { cid, seq: 1, method: 'myMethod2' }
    ]
  */
  await dispatch('myMethod3')
})

store.define('myMethod3', async (payload, methodContext) => {
  const { stack } = methodContext
  /*
    stack = [
      { cid, seq: 0, method: 'myMethod1' },
      { cid, seq: 1, method: 'myMethod2' },
      { cid, seq: 2, method: 'myMethod3' }
    ]
  */
})

store.dispatch('myMethod1')
```

## Middleware function

`(payload, middlewareContext, next) => (any | Promise<any>)`

**Arguments**:

| Argument          | Type       | Description
|-------------------|------------|------------
| payload           | `any`      | Payload passed to method
| middlewareContext | `object`   | [Middleware context](/store.md)
| next              | `function` | Next function to call next middleware(s) and method itself

**Return**:

Any value or Promise of any value.

**next**

Function of type `(payload) => Promise<any>`.

!> To pass payload to next middleware(s) and to method itself always pass "payload" to "next" function

!> To pass result to parent middlewares and to `Store#dispatch` always return result from middleware

```js
store.use(async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
  // do something before

  // you must pass payload to other middleware(s) and method explicitly
  // you can also modify payload here or replace it completely by passing something else to next
  // you can also skip calling next to prevent method to be dispatched
  const result = await next(payload)

  // do something after

  // you must return result explicitly
  // you can also modify result or replace it completely by returning something else
  return result
})
```

## Middleware context

Middleware context is passed as second argument (along with payload and next) to middleware function.

| Property        | Type       | Description
|-----------------|------------|----------------------------
| method          | `string`   | Name of method before which middleware is executed.
| context         | `any`      | User-defined context passed to `Store#dispatch`.
| cid             | `string`   | Call chain id. Defaults to random UUID.
| seq             | `integer`  | Call chain method sequence number.
| meta            | `any`      | User-defined method meta data.
| errors          | `object`   | [Errors](/errors.md) dictionary.
| stack           | `array`    | Call chain stack.
| methodContext   | `object`   | [Method context](/store.md?id=method-context)
| options         | `object`   | Options passed to [Store#dispatch](/store.md?id=dispatchmethod-payload-context-options).

It's pretty much the same as [Method context](/store.md?id=method-context) with following differences:

* It has no "dispatch" property
* It has "method" property
* It has "methodContext" property

"methodContext" property may be used to add some fields / methods to it to be available for method itself.

## Plugin function

`(store, options) => any`

**Arguments**:

| Argument          | Type       | Description
|-------------------|------------|------------
| store             | `Store`    | Store instance
| options           | `any`      | Plugin options

**Return**:

Any value.

```js
const myPlugin = (store, options = {}) => {
  if (options.log) {
    store.use(async (payload, middlewareContext, next) => {
      console.log(`before ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      try {
        await next(payload)
        console.log(`after ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`error ${middlewareContext.method}`)
      }
    })
  }
}

store.plugin(myPlugin, { log: true })
```
